Eagle lied.
What? Vote? What do you want me to vote for? Andrew.
Alright, cool.
Dr. Sue? No, he's been overseas.
Is he, is he still overseas? I think he's back.
Where's he been? But I mean,
I've got an elector amendment bill, so Right. Sam.
Morning. Hey, nice to see you again. Same
To you. Same to you.
I show I can't be there in person,
but it's just the timing of the day.
That's all right. Hey, now we've got a bit of time, so,
um, the floor is yours.
Okay. Well, um, under the current provisions proposed
to the constitutional amendment bill, um, have it, uh,
was it me and the, uh, was it the team of,
its in the ballot on its constitu.
Uh, it feels constitutionally weary
of removing the time limit of 28 days.
That has normally kept in for caretaker governments to wait
for the new government to be sworn in.
It's something that it feels like the rules are
necessarily been changed for
whereas it possibly best either leave as is
or possibly have the timeframe adjusted.
Um, there's some examples mentioned in there where, um,
that the twice it's been enacted on since 1986.
Um, and in
situations it's understandable why it was acted on,
but it's also, it's that just that check
and balance one of our checks and balances on place.
So, you know, that was brought in after Muldoon
and wanna really make sure that we keep that check
and balance in place in case we have another Muldoon
or a Trump who becomes government at a future date and time.
We at least have the ability to go actually no yank,
um, you know,
and literally have the mechanisms that sit down there
and make sure that we have the tools to, um, prevent
that sort of scenario being repeated in the case
of New Zealand, or potentially worse
as we've seen in the United States at the moment.
Um, and if it was to proceed, um,
an enactment date that is
beyond the next election would be at least appropriate so
that no team doesn't get any advantage.
I know the United States, the US Constitution doesn't allow,
uh, Congress people's pay rises
take effect until the next term.
Something that sort
of foundational principle questions.
Hmm. Right. Uh, yeah.
Got one, uh, from Mr. Todd Stevenson. Um,
Thanks, Sam. Good to
see you. Uh, would you feel
more comfortable if there,
because basically the, what, what this bill does is it's,
there is still an expiry, it's just not a, it's just not a,
um, 28 days.
Mm-hmm. The expiry is on when the electoral commission, um,
deems that the mps have been elected.
So would you feel more comfortable
knowing that that's the case?
Certainly, yes.
Um, I mean, as long as we have a situation
where we can form a government, uh,
well not form a government parliament can be sworn in.
Yeah. Yeah.
I mean, if that would be set when the expiry, if
that's the appropriate time for expiry,
because I think it's, was it it's
eight weeks turnaround time is from when, um,
writs are issued to when the writs have to be returned.
Yeah. 60 days. Mm-hmm.
60 days. Yeah.
So, I mean, you know, if that was the expiry,
you know, that would be the point.
And if there was a case, it would have
to have provisions obviously in place if it was
to keep rolling over, such
as a loan negotiation like 9, 9 6.
Yeah. But basically, you know,
ha have a have a period which makes it basically makes sure
that if we're a caretaker situation
or we don't have a government that forms a majority,
the executive keeps rolling over on that, at least having
that check and balance in place continuously in case there
is situations where, um,
mps or prime ministers or something choose
to deviate from constitutional norms.
Well, Sandy is nodding, uh, heads here, so, all right.
Right. Any other questions from anyone?
Yes, senior Wade Brown. If
The chair will, excuse me.
I'll just say it's not a question,
but thank you for all the work you've done
to publicize the local election.
No problem. No problem.
You have got a fan here. Mm-hmm.
Oh, I think there's a few fans around the select committee.
All right. Hey, thanks for again submitting Sam.
I know you did the one the other day as well,
so thanks for that.
No problem. No doubt. We'll see you in time.
Cheers for that. Okay. Bye-bye. Right.
Um, now,
so I think we've got a pretty good outcome now, right guys?
Oh, do we? Yes.